# Minor fix for bootstrap compat

**jeckhart** commented *Mar 17, 2019*

Found a minor issue when running with bootstrap.sh. The iterator was iterating one time too many.

Also fixes the example for array_split which had the args reversed.
<br />
***


**jeckhart** commented *Mar 18, 2019*

I was trying to think about how to test bootstrap failures. I'm not an expert on BATS. I think it would be a separate test suite for bootstrap.sh that calls each function. 
***

**brikis98** commented *Mar 18, 2019*

Wait, haha, I just realized this PR doesn't include any changes to `bootstrap.sh`; only `assert.sh` and `array.sh`...
***

**jeckhart** commented *Mar 19, 2019*

Correct, this was minor changes elsewhere. I found them after adding bootstrap.sh to some of our scripts.
***

**brikis98** commented *Mar 19, 2019*

Ah, OK. So is there a test case for `assert_exactly_one_of` that would've caught that bug?
***

**jeckhart** commented *Mar 20, 2019*

Unfortunately not that I can see. Bash is pretty forgiving if a var isn't
defined, so the code ends up doing the right thing in spite of itself. I
haven't dug into BATS to see if it has a mechanism to test for this though.

On Tue, Mar 19, 2019 at 7:51 AM Yevgeniy Brikman <notifications@github.com>
wrote:

> Ah, OK. So is there a test case for assert_exactly_one_of that would've
> caught that bug?
>
> —
> You are receiving this because you authored the thread.
> Reply to this email directly, view it on GitHub
> <https://github.com/gruntwork-io/bash-commons/pull/15#issuecomment-474330452>,
> or mute the thread
> <https://github.com/notifications/unsubscribe-auth/ABFFt7PnO4oe6t0oHKcHwbqqECUnbxvfks5vYM84gaJpZM4b4tbU>
> .
>

***

**brikis98** commented *Mar 21, 2019*

https://github.com/gruntwork-io/bash-commons/releases/tag/v0.1.2
***

