# Fix CircleCI Contexts

**zackproser** commented *Nov 19, 2020*

This pull request was programmatically opened by the multi-repo-updater program. It should be adding the 'Gruntwork Admin' context to any Workflows -> Jobs nodes and should also be leaving the rest of the .circleci/config.yml file alone. 

 This PR was opened so that all our repositories' .circleci/config.yml files can be converted to use the same CircleCI context, which will make rotating secrets much easier in the future.
<br />
***


**yorinasub17** commented *Nov 19, 2020*

Oh wait. I think this may violate principle of least privilege. I don't think the shellcheck step or bats testing requires the credentials specified in "Gruntwork Admin". I don't quite have time to validate this though, so perhaps we keep it as it is now, and add these in if the tests start failing?

Is there a way to specify an exclude repos list in the script?
***

**zackproser** commented *Nov 19, 2020*

> Oh wait. I think this may violate principle of least privilege. I don't think the shellcheck step or bats testing requires the credentials specified in "Gruntwork Admin". I don't quite have time to validate this though, so perhaps we keep it as it is now, and add these in if the tests start failing?
> 
> Is there a way to specify an exclude repos list in the script?

Thanks for catching that! 

Luckily there is! We can explicitly pass the repos we want the tool to operate on - I sourced the repos from the prototypes folder following the last time we paired on it - now that the tool is closer to having all the bugs (I'm aware of) ironed out, perhaps I should dump a list of the repos I'm planning on feeding it in Slack for a group sanity check. (I'm currently proceeding sequentially through small batches of these repos separated out into different source files). 
***

**brikis98** commented *Nov 20, 2020*

> Oh wait. I think this may violate principle of least privilege. I don't think the shellcheck step or bats testing requires the credentials specified in "Gruntwork Admin". I don't quite have time to validate this though, so perhaps we keep it as it is now, and add these in if the tests start failing?
> 
> Is there a way to specify an exclude repos list in the script?

I had the same thought. Easiest way to check is to remove it manually for now and see? I'll try that now.
***

**brikis98** commented *Nov 20, 2020*

Done: https://github.com/gruntwork-io/bash-commons/pull/30/commits/354d3abf0908bfb7b5e19008fd40a6e3d01c4c33.

If this passes, we should merge this PR and exclude `bash-commons` from the next run of the context updater.
***

**zackproser** commented *Nov 23, 2020*

> Done: [354d3ab](https://github.com/gruntwork-io/bash-commons/commit/354d3abf0908bfb7b5e19008fd40a6e3d01c4c33).
> 
> If this passes, we should merge this PR and exclude `bash-commons` from the next run of the context updater.

Thanks, Jim! Seems it did pass, but now we need another non-contributor to approve this. @yorinasub17 or @bwhaley would you mind doing the honors? Thanks!

I will drop `bash-commons` from the batches and master list of repos to operate on. 
***

**zackproser** commented *Nov 23, 2020*

@yorinasub17 To the rescue :smile: Thanks for the review.
***

