# Support IMDS Versions 1 and 2

**zackproser** commented *Sep 14, 2021*

Fixes https://github.com/gruntwork-io/bash-commons/issues/39

### Overview

These changes migrate bash-commons into a "split-brain" mode which supports both AWS Instance Metadata Service versions 1 **and** 2. These changes attempt to be fully backward compatible by :

* maintaining the same function signatures of the previous version 
* implementing split functions that call out to the proper implementation
* introducing a new function `aws_get_instance_metadata_version_in_use` that reports the version of IMDS being used by the `bash-commons` module
* defaulting to IMDS version 2 but allowing users to override their desired version via the new `GRUNTWORK_BASH_COMMONS_IMDS_VERSION` environment variable
* Creating a new v1 and v2 version of each of the existing `bats` test suites, so that both versions can have their implementations tests simultaneously

### Feedback requested: 
In addition to anything else, please pay particular attention to the following: 
* Token caching behavior (not currently implemented - thoughts on if this is necessary / how to best support it very welcome)
* Right now users can either specify a TTL when calling the new IMDS V2 functions - otherwise the max session default (6 hours) is used
* Additional test coverage - which specific tests cases should be added?

### TODO: 

- [x] Update test harness to support IMDSv2 token functionality 
- [x] Add test coverage for IMDSv2-specific functionality as needed
- [x] Complete `bash-commons` module IMDSv2 migration 
- [x] Update documentation and comments 
<br />
***


**zackproser** commented *Sep 16, 2021*

Thanks for reviewing!

> I am a little confused about backward compatibility. I understand the split function solution, and I see that there is a check for which version based on `GRUNTWORK_BASH_COMMONS_IMDS_VERSION` and falling back to the default. But the default is 2, not 1, so the caller will have to explicitly set `GRUNTWORK_BASH_COMMONS_IMDS_VERSION=1`. Isn't that backward incompatible?

Yes, good question. If I've done this correctly, the intention is that the function calls are entirely backward compatible. This is because the arity of the original calls has been preserved, and the calls that use IMDSv2 are handling their token retrieval and presentation on their own, but returning the exact same output for the exact same input as in version 1. 

That said, I implemented the switch because we do have to operate in a split-brain mode while we're updating all our modules to use IMDSv2. Once we're satisified that everything is cut over to v2 without issue, we wanted to use version 2 as our most secure default going forward, while leaving an escape valve for anyone who might want or need to use version 1.  

> Token caching behavior (not currently implemented - thoughts on if this is necessary / how to best support it very welcome) 
> I'd actually turn it back at you as you are now the IMDS v2 expert! Can you think of situations in which caching would be needed? Superficially, it seems like such a cheap call to get a token that you could just make it on demand before each request, but maybe that's naive.

It is indeed a cheap call, and even [the official AWS docs](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/configuring-instance-metadata-service.html) state that it is perfectly fine to retrieve a new token for each transaction as there are no limits to the number of concurrent sessions or tokens that can be issued for a given instance. 

That said, the IMDS is still subject to the default throttling limits for AWS endpoints. I haven't yet identified a use-case that would need to constantly retrieve data from IMDS at sufficiently high frequency to risk tripping the rate limit. Any such use cases would theoretically be arguments for a first-class caching mechanism. 

> Right now users can either specify a TTL when calling the new IMDS V2 functions - otherwise the max session default (6 hours) is used

> Seems reasonable. What's the max valid period of a token according to AWS? Should we set the max to their max?

The max session duration for an IMDSv2 token is 6 hours. 

> > Additional test coverage - which specific tests cases should be added?
 
> Hmm, not sure. You've already covered all the same tests as v1. Perhaps add tests with unexpected TTL values (normal value, negative value, unusually high value)?

Yep, good idea!

> Looks like the tests here are mocks.. would it be worthwhile to test on a "real" instance?

It probably would, though I've extensively testing all of these on instances as I go. Doesn't mean there couldn't or shouldn't be an end to end ec2 example - I may initially file that as a follow-up ticket. 

***

**bwhaley** commented *Sep 16, 2021*

> That said, I implemented the switch because **we do have to operate in a split-brain mode while we're updating all our modules to use IMDSv2**. Once we're satisified that everything is cut over to v2 without issue, we wanted to use version 2 as our most secure default going forward, while leaving an escape valve for anyone who might want or need to use version 1.

I think I'm still missing something. The bolded part is what I'm confused about. If the calls are "entirely backward compatible," then why do we have to maintain split-brain while we're updating other modules? And if they are _not_ entirely backward compatible, then setting `GRUNTWORK_BASH_COMMONS_IMDS_VERSION=1` will retain the original behavior. Is the idea to go to all the modules that still need v1, update them to set that env var explicitly, then come back again and update them for IMDS v2 sometime later?

> That said, the IMDS is still subject to the default throttling limits for AWS endpoints. I haven't yet identified a use-case that would need to constantly retrieve data from IMDS at sufficiently high frequency to risk tripping the rate limit. Any such use cases would theoretically be arguments for a first-class caching mechanism.

Given that we haven't identified a use case, IMO we shouldn't implement caching yet. We can always do so later if the need arises.

> It probably would, though I've extensively testing all of these on instances as I go. Doesn't mean there couldn't or shouldn't be an end to end ec2 example - I may initially file that as a follow-up ticket.

Sound good. 
***

**zackproser** commented *Sep 16, 2021*

> I think I'm still missing something. The bolded part is what I'm confused about. If the calls are "entirely backward compatible," then why do we have to maintain split-brain while we're updating other modules? And if they are _not_ entirely backward compatible, then setting `GRUNTWORK_BASH_COMMONS_IMDS_VERSION=1` will retain the original behavior. Is the idea to go to all the modules that still need v1, update them to set that env var explicitly, then come back again and update them for IMDS v2 sometime later?

Ah, gotcha. Sorry - that was confusing as originally written. From our internal discussion about this work: 

> I think we will have to have nodes support both versions while all the modules are being updated, but once we confirm all our tools/modules support IMDSv2, it seems like we should take the stance that only IMDSv2 should be used at that point.

> +1. Once our modules support IMDSv2, we should disable v1 and enable only v2 by default. We may still want some "escape valve" for customers who want to explicitly re-enable v1, but it doesn't need to be easy or first class.

So, I originally had it backwards. We should be pinning to V1, initially, while rolling the changes out  to dependent modules. The dependent modules can specify `GRUNTWORK_BASH_COMMONS_IMDS_VERSION` as needed to override this during testing / development. Made this change in ff552f7.

> Given that we haven't identified a use case, IMO we shouldn't implement caching yet. We can always do so later if the need arises.

Makes sense to me :+1: 

***

**zackproser** commented *Oct 8, 2021*

> LGTM. Nice work! ship

Thank you kindly for all the thoughtful reviews!
***

**brikis98** commented *Oct 11, 2021*

Glad to see this merged!

Sanity check: do we have an issue to track that the default IMDS version should be updated to `2` in the future?
***

**zackproser** commented *Oct 11, 2021*

Thanks @brikis98 - I captured this in https://github.com/gruntwork-io/bash-commons/issues/40 :+1: 
***

**zackproser** commented *Nov 8, 2021*

Fixes https://github.com/gruntwork-io/company/issues/132
***

