# Added new dynamic-ubuntu-wait.sh

**eak12913** commented *May 23, 2018*

A utility script that can be curled and used in our various packer builds when we construct ubuntu AMIs.
<br />
***


**brikis98** commented *May 23, 2018*

Oh, also, please add it to the root `README` and show an example one-liner of how it can be used (via `curl` and `|`). 
***

**eak12913** commented *May 23, 2018*

Jim, I've added the example and the call-out in the README but I'm not entirely sure how to test this.  The only test I can think of would have to be a go test of building an AMI using two different packer templates. One with the curling of this script and one without. The expectation being that the packer template that doesn't curl this script gets an error while the one that does curl this script gets no error.  Is this what you are thinking of?
***

**brikis98** commented *May 24, 2018*

Just add an example Packer template that uses this and a test for same, and this is good to go.
***

**yorinasub17** commented *Sep 3, 2020*

I am resurrecting this PR because we are using it in our ELK AMI examples and it feels sketchy to use unreleased code.

I added a go integration test for testing this (f32ccd6), but one problem is that the current circleCI build doesn't have AWS credentials, so it is failing. Is there any risk to adding the credentials?

The other issue I ran into is that the checksums for the shellcheck repo is now broken. Digging in I landed on [this issue](https://github.com/koalaman/shellcheck/issues/1407) which suggest that we should be sourcing them from github now, so I fixed the docker container: b6ea582
***

**yorinasub17** commented *Sep 4, 2020*

> Apparently, with the new CircleCi, you do that using contexts. I added our machine user data to a context called "Gruntwork Admin," and I think you can use it by adding context: Gruntwork Admin to a job:

Thanks! Just added in to see if it works.
***

**yorinasub17** commented *Sep 4, 2020*

I believe I addressed all comments and the test is passing now!
***

**yorinasub17** commented *Sep 9, 2020*

Thanks for review! Going to merge and release this now.
***

